ETL Process Documentation
Introduction
This document outlines the Extract, Transform, Load (ETL) process implemented for the Airbnb New York City dataset using Python, PostgreSQL, and Metaflow. The ETL process involves extracting raw data from a PostgreSQL database, transforming it to derive insights, and loading the transformed data back into a PostgreSQL database.

ETL Process Steps
Step 1: Data Ingestion and Storage
Dataset Selection:

The chosen dataset is the Airbnb New York City dataset from Kaggle, containing detailed information about Airbnb listings in New York City.
Database Setup:

PostgreSQL was selected for data storage due to its robustness and relational database capabilities.
A database named airbnb_db was created to store the dataset.
Data Loading:

The dataset was loaded into PostgreSQL using a Python script (load_data.py).
SQLAlchemy was used to connect to the database and insert data efficiently.
A table named airbnb_nyc was created with appropriate column definitions to store the Airbnb data.
Step 2: ETL Process
Data Extraction:

Data was extracted from the airbnb_nyc table using SQLAlchemy in Python (extract_data.py).
A SQL query was executed to fetch data based on a specified price_limit parameter.
Data Transformation:

Extracted data was transformed to enhance its usability and analytics capabilities.
Transformation steps included:
Normalizing the last_review column into separate review_date and review_time columns.
Calculating additional metrics such as average price per neighborhood.
Handling missing values by filling them with appropriate default values.
Data Loading:

Transformed data was loaded into a new table named transformed_airbnb_nyc using SQLAlchemy (load_transformed_data.py).
The table schema was designed to accommodate the transformed data structure, ensuring data integrity and efficiency.
Step 3: Workflow Management with Metaflow
Workflow Implementation:

Metaflow, a Python framework for managing data science workflows, was used to orchestrate the ETL process.
The workflow (airbnb_etl_flow.py) was defined with multiple steps:
start: Initiates the ETL process.
extract_data: Extracts data from PostgreSQL based on a parameterized price limit.
transform_data: Transforms the extracted data by normalizing columns and calculating metrics.
load_data: Loads the transformed data back into PostgreSQL.
Error Handling and Retry Mechanism:

Retry mechanisms were implemented using Metaflow’s retry decorator to handle exceptions gracefully and ensure workflow robustness.
Maximum retries and delay intervals were specified to manage transient errors during data extraction, transformation, or loading.
Instructions for Running the Metaflow Workflow
Prerequisites
Software Requirements:

Python (version 3.6 or higher)
PostgreSQL database server
Metaflow (install via pip install metaflow)
Database Setup:

Ensure PostgreSQL is installed and running.
Create a database named airbnb_db to store the Airbnb dataset.
Running the Metaflow Workflow
Clone the Repository:

bash
Copy code
git clone <repository_url>
cd <repository_name>
Configure PostgreSQL Credentials:

Update database connection details (db_host, db_port, db_name, db_user, db_password) in the Metaflow workflow script (airbnb_etl_flow.py).
Execute the Metaflow Workflow:

Run the Metaflow workflow using Python:
bash
Copy code
python airbnb_etl_flow.py run
Follow the prompts to provide the price_limit parameter for data extraction.
Monitor Workflow Execution:

Metaflow provides real-time logs and status updates during workflow execution.
Errors or retries will be logged with detailed messages to aid in troubleshooting.
Verify Data:

Check PostgreSQL tables (airbnb_nyc, transformed_airbnb_nyc) to ensure data has been loaded and transformed correctly.
Example Usage
bash
Copy code
# Run the Metaflow workflow with a price limit of 200
python airbnb_etl_flow.py run --price_limit 200
This documentation provides a comprehensive overview of the ETL process implemented for the Airbnb New York City dataset using Metaflow and PostgreSQL. It includes step-by-step instructions for setting up the environment, running the workflow, and verifying the results. Adjust the specifics (like database credentials and file names) to match your actual implementation.





